now the images of people escaping north
to south in Gaza strike a resemblance to
the black and white images from 75 years
ago when Palestinians were forcibly
displaced from their towns and cities in
Palestine nbar or the catastrophe refers
to the forced expulsion of Palestinians
from their homes back in 1948 when the
state of Israel was created the images
were seen now from gazra similar to
those from nbar but in color and of
course right now in 20 23 let's bring in
nor who's a political analyst and writer
joins us now from rala nor good to have
you with us very striking pictures of
hundreds and hundreds of Palestinians
streaming South very evocative and a
somewhat chilling reminder of
History absolutely uh they are traumatic
on a massive scale for Palestinians
watching this fearing uh that this
dispossession from the northern Gaza to
Southern Gaza is just the first stage in
what they uh uh you know dread uh might
uh uh be uh just um a plan to get all
Palestinians out of Gaza this is still a
very haunting fear if you will for
Palestinians watching uh the events
unfold in the Gaza Strip the Ona says
about 50,000 people were able to walk
that Trail of Tears if you will um uh
for miles and miles with their hands up
waving a white flag carrying um um uh
only what they can carry with their
hands so it's a it's a very um striking
image especially if you take into
account that these people are going to
the South where bombing continues and
where there is very little anybody can
offer them uh by way of food or shelter
uh just the bare minimum of the
requirements of life right and when you
align those black and white pictures
with those of today those those two sets
of images uh right there we have the
very context of everything that's
happening that has been missing in so
much much coverage of this conflict
absolutely absolutely and and and I
think it's so important to remind
viewers of that context to remind
viewers that the majority of the
population in the Gaza Strip are in fact
refugees uh the many of those who made
that walk yesterday and in the days
before uh themselves had to make it as
children in 1948 so this is a recurring
trauma for them um many of the residents
of B hanun for example in the north have
been displaced repeatedly during
previous Israeli assaults so this it for
them it it keeps happening it's a trauma
on a loop if you will that they keep
living in the absence of any safeguards
or protections to them as civilians yeah
what has changed in 75 years nor so
bring It Forward too today talk of this
truce perhaps a three-day truce gaining
steam uh some kind of prisoner swap the
heart of all of this
yeah I mean I think the the news would
be welcomed by everybody who might you
know they need desperately a little bit
of calm to gather themselves to receive
uh uh humanitarian Aid one would uh
think that the
logical dialogue going on about uh the
release of those 15 captives would
include an increase of the humanitarian
assistance we heard from Oxfam about two
or three days ago saying that the amount
of food that entered the Gaza Strip is
just 2% of what it needs so people are
are uh going hungry the the food that
they buy or are able to find is not
replenished in grocery stores uh that
humanitarian assistance is urgently
needed um it but it won't be enough
three days or two days won't be nearly
enough to meet the uh the needs of 2.2
million people who have been under siege
for over 30 days denied uh access to
just about everything and it remains to
be seen whether that pause uh would
include getting uh humanitarian
assistance to Northern Gaza where it's
really really darely needed uh there you
have no no access to food no access to
fuel no access to medicine for the
remaining uh hospitals in that northern
part and hundreds of thousands of people
who continue uh to Bear the brunt of
that Israeli
offensive so the CIA director William
Burns he's flying into cata and
presumably his focus is going to be very
much on on this issue the the potential
for prisoners to be
exchanged absolutely especially when we
take into account that the talk um um or
some of the insinuation the leaks that
we've seen is that the the 15 would
probably be dual Nationals so they would
be um Nationals of of various countries
presumably including uh Americans as
well um and the US has had a very heavy
role in all of this it has been involved
um from day one um not as an Arbiter but
more as a representative in many cases
of the Israeli side it you know adds one
more irony to the picture of all of this
and one more complication if you will to
the political Dynamic but that is the
role the uh Biden Administration is
playing and the presence of Burns in
Qatar would indicate that there is
significant
progress maybe a few Kinks to be worked
out but definitely a sign of progress
also another sign perhaps more ugly sign
is Israel ramping up its air strikes
which is a familiar pattern when we come
close to break in hostilities in these
kind of
conflict yeah I mean that's the pattern
that we can uh definitely see in this
round and in previous rounds every time
a talk of a ceasefire approaches there's
a ratcheting up of of violence and um
not just the attack on hospitals or the
vicinity of hospitals but we've heard
from the UN saying that only eight
bakeries remain in the entirety of the
Gaza Strip 2.2 million people depending
on eight bakeries for their staple food
uh bread in Gaza is what rice would be
to uh uh people in Southeast Asia for
example there's just no uh going around
without it no uh living without it
that's what people depend on to survive
so the the need for those things is
awesome and and one has to wonder why uh
attacking those sources of Life uh would
uh uh would constitute or be justified
as any kind of uh military Target no uh
thanks very much for that stick around
because we'll get more of your
perspective a little bit later for the
time being thank you